# bash-scripts

Ever-growing list of bash scripts and snippets.

By convention script names are prepended with `_` (an underscore) and have no `sh` extension.
This is to limit the name clashes with installed apps and blend together commands in various langs (sh, python *etc*.).

For usage-info type:

  `_<scriptname> --help`

or refer to `helpMsg` function inside the script file itself.

## Shared functionality

### `_mmenu`

flexible script that automatically chooses right menu program (dmenu/slmenu/bash select)
depending on the environment and available apps.

Can read item list from pipe, file or directly from command line args.

Defaults are tailored to my liking (e.g slmenu while in linuxconsole but dmenu while in X terminal).

## CLI commodities 

### `_compress`

compresses files/dirs into tar.gz, 7z, or zip.
Easy to extend.
Has options to timestamp archive and choose files to compress with dmenu.

### `_make.shortcuts`

uses single plaintext file to create shortcuts (bash aliases, ranger) for quick access to directories and to execute cmds. Other apps to be added.

To keep consistent aliases/keybindings across different aplications/machines.
Depends on no external tools, not even sed---as a tradeoff it relays on bash-specific functionality.

### `_tmux`

simplifies use of tmux sessions.
Written to have a single command (aliased e.g.: `.t`) that creates or attaches/switches (autonamed) sessions, optionally executing shell command (also from within tmux session).

The tmux behaviour changed a lot between 1.6-2+, so YMMV; it works for me in 2+.

### `_tmux.cmd.grid`

creates tiled tmux window, running command in each pane.
If command and filename given, each pane executes the same command over one line of a file.
If only filename provided, each line is treated as a command to be executed in a separate pane.

Written to simplify repetitive tasks on many urls/repos/files/whatever at once, e.g.: making ssh connections, rsync backups, file downloads, git pushes/pulls.

### `_x.touchpad.toggle`

Easy switch touchpad on/off (mostly off :)) with custom keybindings.
To script around issues with special keys on my laptop.

## Automate documentation creation for projects

Used to automate documentation creation for projects (EU partial/final reports).

Address very specific needs, and often assume a properly formatted input, generated by other files in the toolchain.

### `_convert.webpage`

download snapshot of a webpage, rename and tag it with sitename and timestamp.

To be maintained and used by others (including non tech users?), so coded verbosely and defensively.

### `_overlay.logo`

overlay graphic files with logo.
Automatically chooses the right logo and converts it to match input image density and pixelsize.

## System

### `_block.countries.by.ip`

blocks ip ranges via iptables.
Ranges are pulled from ipdeny.com.
Not used for couple a years---to be throughly tested and revamped if returned to service.
